
This readme is getting stale.
mcxio(5) or mcxio.html and the header files may be better places to look.

 * 0  Directory structure and prefix usage.

   Types and functions are prefixed like this:

      mcxTing  mcxTingNew(..)
      mcxHash  mcxHashSearch(..)

      mclMatrix mclVector and mclIvp are via macros also available as
      mclx, mclv and mclp, and their functions use the latter prefixes.

   Within the code, variables should *not* use capitals. There are still places
   where this occurs, and these are gradually being cleaned out.


 * 1  The impala directory.
   
   It *might* stand for sIMPle scALable spArse, but it does not.  The code in
   impala implements vector and matrix functionality, with basic support for
   sparse

   o  linear arithmetic on matrices and vectors
   o  graph operations
   o  set operations
   o  clustering operations

   o  value tables (secondary use; tread with care).


   The three basic data structures are in ivp.[ch], vector.[ch] and matrix.[ch]


 * 1.1   Index Value Pair

   An index value pair (ivp.[ch]) is the very basic building block.  It is a
   struct consisting of an integer number (the index) and a real number (the
   value).  These are by default implemented as int/float. By using the
   -DVALUE_AS_DOUBLE compiler option the real number can be implemented as a
   double, by using -DINDEX_AS_LONG the integer can be implemented as a long
   integer.


 * 1.2   Vector

   A vector is an array of ivps. The index members must be nonnegative
   and strictly ascending. The value part is preferably positive.
   Many operations may silently remove zero-valued entries, and a very
   limited number of operations may choke on negative values, e.g.
   the Hadamard power.

   A vector has an index itself, the 'vid' member (vector id).
   It serves to denote the index of the vector in a matrix.

   The 'index entries' or 'indices' of a vector are the index
   members of the ivp array member of the vector.


 * 1.3   Matrix

   A matrix is an array of vectors (in the cols member). The vid-s of those
   vectors must be nonnegative and ascending, and must correspond exactly with
   the index entries of the dom_cols vector member of the matrix.  Thus the
   number of vectors (c.q. columns) in the matrix is found as the number of
   entries in the dom_cols vector.  The macro N_COLS(mx) computes this number.

   The index entries of the vectors in the cols member must be present as an
   ivp index in the dom_rows vector member of the matrix.  The macro N_ROWS(mx)
   computes the number of rows in a matrix.

   The matrix structure is also used for so-called *value tables* .
   These are simply matrices in which every value is explicitly represented -
   also if it is zero. This is a secondary use and one should tread carefully,
   because many vector and matrix operations remove zero-valued entries.
   An example of this use is the mcl 'chr' matrix (characteristics matrix)
   that can optionally be output for every iteration of the mcl process.

   A TODO item is to enable the IO routines to output matrices as value tables,
   i.e. by explicitly specifying all entries, also those for which the value is
   zero.


 * 1.4   Sets and Clusterings

   A set is stored as a vector.

   A clustering is stored as a matrix.


